Release notes v5.0.0-preview3 (#1645)
dotnet/SqlClient: CHANGELOG.md

- Added support for specifying Server SPN and Failover Server SPN on the connection. [#1607](https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/1607)
- Added support for aliases when targeting .NET Core on Windows. [#1588](https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/1588)

### Fixed

- Fixed naming, order, and formatting for `SqlDiagnosticsListener` on .NET Core and .NET. [#1637] (https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/1637)
- Fixed NullReferenceException during Azure Active Directory authentication. [#1625] (https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/1625)
- Added CommandText length validation when using stored procedure command types. [#1484](https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/1484)
- Fixed `GetSchema("StructuredTypeMembers")` to return correct schema information. [#1500] (https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/1500), [#1639](https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/1639)

> - Fixed **Null Reference Exception** when using `SqlDependency.Start` against an Azure SQL Database.[#1294] (https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/1294)

Reviewer: Uniforming!
```suggestion
- Fixed NullReferenceException when using `SqlDependency.Start` against an Azure SQL Database.[#1294] (https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/1294)
```

The format is based on [Keep a Changelog](https://keepachangelog.com/en/1.0.0/)

## [Preview Release 5.0.0-preview3] - 2022-06-15

This update brings the below changes over the previous release:

### Added
- Added support for `TDS 8`. To use TDS 8, users should specify Encrypt=Strict in the connection string. Strict mode disables TrustServerCertificate (always treated as False in Strict mode). HostNameInCertificate has been added to help some Strict mode scenarios. [#1608](https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/1608)
- Added support to skip the driver-generated Server Prinicipal Name when using SPN and Failover Partner SPN options in a connection string.

> - Added support for aliases for NetCore on Windows. [#1588](https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/1588)

Reviewer 2: .NET Core

> - Added support for aliases for NetCore on Windows. [#1588](https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/1588)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Added support for aliases for .NET Core on Windows. [#1588](https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/1588)
```

### Fixed

> - Fixed naming, order and formatting for dignostics. [#1637] (https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/1637)

Reviewer 2: diagnostics

> - Fixed naming, order and formatting for dignostics. [#1637] (https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/1637)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Fixed naming, order, and formatting for `SqlDiagnosticsListener` on .NET Core and .NET. [#1637] (https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/1637)
```

> - Handle NRE on Azure federated authentication. [#1625] (https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/1625)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Fixed NullReferenceException during Azure Active Directory authentication. [#1625] (https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/1625)
```

> - Fixed CommandText Length for Stored Procedures. [#1484](https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/1484)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Added CommandText length validation when using stored procedure command types. [#1484](https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/1484)
```

> - Fxied TYPE_SCHEME members in StructuredTypeMembers. [#1500] (https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/1500)

Reviewer 2: Fixed - and is it SCHEMA ?

> - Fxied TYPE_SCHEME members in StructuredTypeMembers. [#1500] (https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/1500)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Fxied `GetSchema("StructuredTypeMembers")` to return correct scheme. [#1500] (https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/1500), [#1639](https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/1639)
```

> - Fixed issue SqlDependency.Start throws NRE against Azure SQL Database.[#1294] (https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/1294)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Fixed **Null Reference Exception** using `SqlDependency.Start` against Azure SQL Databases.[#1294] (https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/1294)
```

> - Fixed retained Transaction descriptor in MARDS TDS Header for .Net 5+ and . NetCore. [#1624] (https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/1624)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Fixed retained transaction descriptor in MARS TDS Header for .NET 5+ and .NET Core. [#1624] (https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/1624)
```

> - Fixed Parallel SSRP Requests for Linux and Mac OS when MultiSubNetFailover is specified. [#1578] (https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/1578)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Parallelize SSRP requests on Linux and macOS when MultiSubNetFailover is specified. [#1578] (https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/1578)
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

### Changed

> - Dropping the Microsoft.Data.SqlClient.Server namespace for supported types by Microsoft.SqlServer.Server package.

Reviewer 2: Replacing?

> - Dropping the Microsoft.Data.SqlClient.Server namespace for supported types by Microsoft.SqlServer.Server package.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Replace the Microsoft.Data.SqlClient.Server namespace with references to the Microsoft.SqlServer.Server package.
```

- Code health improvements [#1353](https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/1353) [#1354](https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/1354) [#1525](https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/1525) [#1186](https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/1186)

> - Improve error reporting from SqlDBManager. [#1617] (https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/1617)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

### Fixed

- Fixed naming, order, and formatting for `SqlDiagnosticsListener` on .NET Core and .NET. [#1637] (https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/1637)
- Fixed NullReferenceException during Azure Active Directory authentication. [#1625] (https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/1625)
- Added CommandText length validation when using stored procedure command types. [#1484](https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/1484)
- Fixed `GetSchema("StructuredTypeMembers")` to return correct schema information. [#1500] (https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/1500), [#1639](https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/1639)
- Fixed NullReferenceException when using `SqlDependency.Start` against an Azure SQL Database.[#1294] (https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/1294)
- Send the correct retained transaction descriptor in the MARS TDS Header when there is no current transaction on .NET 5+ and .NET Core. [#1624] (https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/1624)
- Parallelize SSRP requests (instance name resolution) on Linux and macOS when MultiSubNetFailover is specified. [#1578] (https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/1578)

> - Adjust the default ConnectRetryCount against OnDemand endpoints [#1626] (https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/1626)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Adjust the default ConnectRetryCount against Azure Synapse OnDemand endpoints [#1626] (https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/1626)
```

### Changed

- Dropped the `Microsoft.Data.SqlClient.Server` namespace and replaced it with supported types from the [Microsoft.SqlServer.Server](https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/tree/main/src/Microsoft.SqlServer.Server) package.[#1585](https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/1585)
- Code health improvements [#1353](https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/1353) [#1354](https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/1354) [#1525](https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/1525) [#1186](https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/1186)
- Update Azure Identity dependency from 1.5.0 to 1.6.0.[#1611](https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/1611)
- Improved Regex for SqlCommandSet [#1548] (https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/1548)

> - Improved TdsParserStateObjectManaged to address null reference exception by adding nullable annotations. [#1555] (https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/1555)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Improved TdsParserStateObjectManaged to address NullReferenceException by adding nullable annotations. [#1555] (https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/1555)
```

> - Improved TdsParserStateObjectManaged to address NullReferenceException by adding nullable annotations. [#1555] (https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/1555)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Rework on `TdsParserStateObjectManaged` with nullable annotations. [#1555] (https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/1555)
```
